Abstract—Recently, there has been an increase in the number of location–based services and applications. It is common for these applications to provide facilities or rewards for users who visit specific venues frequently. This creates the incentive for dishonest users to lie about their location and submit fake check– ins by changing their GPS data. To solve this issue, different dis- tributed location proof schemes have been proposed to generate location proofs for mobile users. However, these schemes have some drawbacks: (1) they are vulnerable to either Prover–Prover or Prover–Witness collusions, (2) the location proof generation process is slow when users adopt a long private key, and (3) their implementation requires some hardware changes on mobile devices. To address these issues, we propose the Secure, Privacy– Aware and collusion Resistant poSition vErification (SPARSE) scheme to generate private location proofs for mobile users. SPARSE has a distributed architecture designed for ad–hoc scenarios in which mobile users generate location proofs for each other. Since we do not integrate any distance bounding protocol into SPARSE, it becomes an easy–to–implement scheme in which the location proof generation process is independent of the length of the users’ private key. We provide a comprehensive security analysis and simulation which show that SPARSE provides privacy protection as well as security properties for users including integrity, unforgeability and non–transferability of the location proofs. Moreover, it achieves a highly reliable performance against collusions.
Index Terms—collusion attacks detection and prevention; location–based services; location privacy; location proof systems.
I. INTRODUCTION
The recent advancements in smartphone technology and po- sitioning systems have resulted in appearance of new location– based services and applications. These services use real-time position data of a mobile user to provide his/her requested information such as the nearest ATM, restaurant or retail store [1–3]. Many of these applications like Yelp and Foursquare provide a benefit or reward for users who check–in regularly at specific locations (refer to [4] for other examples of such applications). However, it is possible for dishonest users to submit fake check–ins by changing their GPS data to gain more benefit. For example, in a research study, Zhang et al [5] found that 75% of Foursquare check–ins are false and submitted by dishonest users to obtain more rewards.
To address this issue, different systems have been intro- duced so far to prevent users from submitting fake location claims. These systems are called location proof systems in the literature [4], [6–12]. Generally, there are two types of such systems depending on the system architecture: centralized and distributed location proof systems. In the centralized location proof systems [4], [6], [7], a trusted fixed wireless infrastructure (like a WiFi access point) is employed at each site to check the physical presence of mobile users and generate location proofs (LPs) for them. A user can then submit his/her location claim with the service provider using the received LP. However, it might be too expensive for the service provider to employ a large number of access points (APs) for different sites or there might be some sites in which no fixed wireless infrastructure is accessible. For these scenarios, distributed location proof systems [8–12] have been proposed in which mobile users collaborate with the system and generate LPs for each other. In the literature, the user who wants to make a location claim and another user who generates a LP for him/her are called prover and witness, respectively.
Location proof systems can face different security and privacy challenges that must be addressed. Some of these chal- lenges are common between both centralized and distributed location proof systems. For example, a dishonest user might submit a LP request with a neighbor AP in the centralized scenario or a mobile witness in the distributed scenario on behalf of a remote malicious prover. This attack is called a Terrorist Fraud or a Prover–Prover collusion in the literature [13], [14]. On the other hand, there are attacks that target the distributed location proof systems only. The reason is that in these systems, LPs are generated by mobile users which are not always trusted. For example, a dishonest witness might collude with a remote malicious prover and generate a fake LP for him/her. This is known as a Prover–Witness collusion in the literature [8]. Moreover, to preserve location privacy of users, the system must keep provers and witnesses anonymous during LP generation phase.
To the best of our knowledge, none of the current distributed location proof schemes can address all of these challenges at the same time. For example, the most recently proposed
978-1-5386-4727-1/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Yeditepe Universitesi. Downloaded on March 09,2022 at 18:58:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
systems in this field are STAMP [8] and PROPS [12]. In these systems, the Bussard–Bagga distance bounding protocol [13] is integrated into the system to prevent Terrorist Frauds although Bay et al [15] has already broken this protocol and illustrated its inadequency in preventing Terrorist Fraud [15–17]. Furthermore, employing a distance bounding (DB) protocol prevents these systems from generating LPs fast when the users adopt a long private key [6]. The reason is that in DB protocols, users must perform an n–stage fast– bit–exchange process where n is the number of bits that the user’s private key has. Obviously, this process takes long for large values of n (refer to [13] and [18] for more information about DB protocols). In addition, in these systems, the Prover– Witness collusions are not detected and prevented using a reliable mechanism. For example, in PROPS these collusions are prevented by using the LP shares. This method works only when the number of colluding users is less than the number of shares needed. In STAMP, these collusions are detected based on the LP transaction history between users. It considers a high likelihood of collusion for a user who has obtained most of his/her LPs from a specific group of witnesses. Although they have reached to a 90% success rate for collusion detection, this is not regarded as a high level of reliability.
In this paper, we propose the Secure, Privacy–Aware and collusion Resistant poSition vErification scheme (SPARSE) which provides secure and private LP generation and verifi- cation for mobile users. In the proposed scheme, we do not employ a DB protocol for protection against Terrorist Fraud. Instead we adopt a time–limited approach to make SPARSE resistant to these attacks. This introduces two advantages. Firstly, the speed of LP generation becomes independent of the length of the users’ private key. Secondly, the costs of the system implementation is reduced since implementing a DB protocol requires some hardware changes on mobile devices [6]. Moreover, to address Prover–Witness collusions, we do not allow provers to choose their witnesses. Instead, the system performs a witness selection mechanism by which some witnesses are chosen and qualified to generate LPs for a specific prover. We show that by using this method, if the service provider creates necessary incentives for users to collaborate with the system and generate LP for each other, the success probability of these collusions is negligible.
The following are our contributions:
• We propose SPARSE, a secure and privacy–aware dis-
tributed location proof scheme for mobile users. Security analysis shows that SPARSE achieves the necessary properties of a secure and private location proof system including integrity, unforgeability and non–transferability of the LPs.
• We introduce a new witness selection mechanism and in- tegrate it into the system to make SPARSE reliable when witnesses collude with a malicious prover to generate LPs for him/her.
• The reliability of the proposed scheme against Prover– Witness collusions is assessed through simulation which
shows that the system achieves protection success rates better than 98%.
The rest of our paper is organized as follows. After a short review of the related work in section II, we introduce the proposed SPARSE scheme in section III. A comprehensive security analysis is provided in Section IV. Finally, after presenting the simulation results in Section V, we conclude the paper in Section VI.
II. RELATED WORK
Previously proposed location proof systems can be classi- fied into two categories depending on the system architecture: centralized and distributed systems. Since our proposed sys- tem has a distributed architecture, we focus on reviewing the previous research studies that are related to the distributed location proof systems.
One of the earliest distributed location proof systems is APPLAUS which has been proposed by Zhu et al [9]. In the proposed system, nearby mobile devices exchange information via their short–range Bluetooth interface to generate LPs for each other. Each mobile device registers a set of M public/private key pairs with a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) where the M public keys are the pseudonyms of a user. To protect the privacy of users, the mobile devices change their pseudonyms periodically. However, this approach imposes high communication and operation overhead because of the necessity of periodically changing pseudonyms and generating dummy LPs.
Another location proof system with a distributed architec- ture has been proposed by Davis et al [10] in which a privacy– preserving alibi (location proof) system is introduced. In the proposed mechanism, users do not reveal their identity during alibi generation. A user’s identity is only disclosed when he/she decides to submit his/her alibi to a judge. However, they have not considered collusions and attacks in their designed system.
LINK, introduced by Talasila et al [11] is another dis- tributed location proof protocol in which users collaborate with the system to verify the location of each other. In LINK, neighbour users are contacted by the prover via short–range wireless interface such as Bluetooth. Then, they send their verification messages to a trusted and centralized Location Certification Authority (LCA). The LCA determines the valid- ity of the claim using three parameters, i.e., the spatiotemporal correlation between the users, each user’s trust scores, and history of the trust scores. However, privacy issues have not been considered in the protocol design since a prover must broadcast his/her ID to the neighbor verifiers.
One of the main weaknesses of these kinds of location proof systems is that they are vulnerable against Prover–Witness collusions as witness nodes are not always trusted. A witness can generate a LP for a user while one or both are not at the claimed location. PROPS introduced by Gambs et al [12] is an example of distributed location proof protocols which has not proposed a reliable solution for Prover–Witness collusions. It